class is underway in Alma wasi refugee
camp on Southern gaza's
Coastline these young minds have
witnessed Untold
Horrors but for a couple of hours a day
their attention is focused on their
teacher and their
classmates I came here to study and to
learn coming here will help me achieve
my
dreams I
I'm here to learn and be more active I
like going to school very
much there's no shortage of eager
students and the simplest thing like
learning how to draw can transport a
child's imagination far beyond the walls
of a
tent yesterday the teacher taught me
maths in Arabic I also learned how to
draw a fruit basket because I like fruit
so much I haven't had any fruit for 3
a radan is a teacher at hop maker school
where pen and paper are scarce but
enthusiasm and dedication are in
abundance our conditions here are very
difficult there is no Blackboard we try
to help children in the simplest ways we
will not let them
down alasi is a narrow strip of land
just a kilometer wide and 14 km long
there's no running water electricity or
sanitation not ideal conditions in which
to live or
learn but teachers like these are
determined to make a
difference we focus on three study areas
psychological care values and principles
and education and skills despite all the
difficulties and the lack of almost
every
we have managed to teach 480 children in
41 The Familiar Buzz of Israeli drones
in the sky
above is drowned out ever so slightly by
a physical education
class for a moment it's children being
children again and the devastation and
grief of the war seems far away mik lle
Al jaer
joining us now is Ricardo Perez he's a
spokesman for the un's children's agency
unan joins us live now from the
Jordanian capital and man good to have
you with us Mr Perez on the program just
to clarify are there any working schools
in Gaza at
all thanks for having me no not at all
since seven months now nearly eight
children have had no continuous access
to education or schools schools have
become shelters in fact and sometimes
have been under attack so no there is no
education system right now functioning
in Gaza and we're doing our best as it
was shown in the segment which is uh
very hopeful to see uh to keep children
safe um and continuously learning a
little bit uh bit by bit but there is no
safety for them to do that and no
infrastructure and no right conditions
sure I mean how is the ability then to
teach youngsters obviously has become
more and more difficult since October
the because you've got a lack of
facilities on one side a shifting of the
educational um parameters you might say
because of safe zones or evacuation
zones however the Israelis want to
describe them and then I presume a lack
of teachers because as time has gone on
there have been some I'm sure that have
been killed injured or
escaped yeah absolutely before October
7th we had 22,000 teachers in average
working in the Gaza Strip uh to help
those 625 thousand students to learn and
Thrive hopefully looking at their
Futures but right now lacking
infrastructure and indeed the safety to
to do so uh became became a huge uh huge
impediment for us we were trying to get
50 tents through into Rafa before the
incursion to start a a very sort of
formal basic education space for
children in average 150 per turn but
then we had to hold those plans because
the military offensive started and again
hundreds of thousands of people had to
evacuate again to alasi an area where
it's basically sand dunes and very hard
to set up such an infrastructure so
education is again at he which
jeopardizes their present and their
future and I suppose the infrastructure
for Education comes down the priority
list doesn't it when food water and
Medicine are high up on the agenda for
Aid agencies like the UN to try and get
food to get those sort of supplies into
the region so one wonders how teaching
itself has had to change to make sure
that children of all ages get some sort
of I suppose sense of normality and that
they get the education they need for
their age bracket I mean there are so
many moving parts and so many things to
consider when a child comes in front of
you and one is 15 and the other one is
three absolutely and it's a sad reality
one that we're trying to manage day
after day but right now we're worried
about their safety for first and
foremost and as you mentioned to make
sure that they have enough food water
medicines and Health Care um and
psychosocial support as well because we
can say safely that every single child
in the Gaza Strip today is traumatized
after seven nearly eight months of
horror so we're trying again to create
these safe spes spaces to give them that
the psychosocial support that they so
desperately need but it's it's very
difficult under the circumstances now
when multiple displacement displacements
keep happening
and safety again is is a big issue so
this is not only a war on children on
their present but on their future no
schools are functioning all universities
have been destroyed so what are they
going to look forward to and we're
trying to make sure that at least that
very basic formal education of numeracy
and literacy can continue and that they
feel safe to be children again you very
conveniently came to my next question
which is about the trauma because you
can't ignore the environment these
children are in so one presumes that
those teachers that are still surviving
so to speak have become social workers
too they need that support as well don't
they from agencies like yourself because
they're not just teachers anymore now
they've most probably come the nearest
thing to a parent for some of those
children who we do know have become
orphans as
well absolutely they've become survivors
like every other child in the Gaza Strip
who are struggling to live day after day
and not knowing what tomorrow would look
like they thought in Rafa they would
have the allegedly safe space to to wait
until there's a ceasefire and and this
horror ends but again they were forced
out into alasi D balak and the rubbles
and and the remains of KH units and
every single teacher is now indeed a
social worker a parent to Children
who've been separated from their parents
or who've lost their parents and we know
many thousands have so it it's a
completely different scenario for them
education now has become an activity
that goes Way Beyond books and maths and
numbers and history but moreover it
psychos social support is making sure
that children feel safe and that they
can still hope and dream of a future
which right now seems uh very very far
away well I hope we'll be able to invite
you back um to talk about how things
have improved as and when they do uh in
the not too distant future Ricardo perz
from the un's children's agency UNICEF
thank you
sir thank you
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from aler